Character	Point	Quotation	Context	
Lennie	Society shows no mercy for mentally disabled people, or any disabled people(candy,crooks)	If he finds out what a crazy bastard you are, we won't get no job.-George.	Most people in great depression with mental illnesses were sent to institutions without a thought. Lobotomies were developed and many people supported them.	Not alone. Only ‘guys who travel around together’-Slim. Yet goerge is still lonely without adult companionship.
George	Represents unobtainable American dream. Isolation causes the most damage in society. Without Lennie the dream is pointless to him.	I think I know'd we'd never do her.- over curleys wifes dead body. George realized his dream wouldn’t become reality	Lifestyle people lead are impermanent and one cannot have long lasting relationships as people move from ranch to ranch. 1.5 million fathers left families to work.	
Candy	Society shows no mercy for disabled people.	Dog represents candy. Carlson represents utilitarian, merciless society. Dog is killed. There is no place or someone worthless like candy.	Old people got less money. 30 dollars a week. “I can't get no more jobs.”-candy hasn’t got another chance. 	
Curley	Shows nepotistic society. Not had to work for his status. Represents lack of social mobility	“Curley looked threateningly around the room.” ”high-heeled boots”	Decleration of independence- “all men are created equal”. Ironic that Franklin D. Roosevelt came from a political family. (Theodore Roosevelt was president). Steinbeck supported him. 	
Curley’s wife	Shows loneliness. Manipulative.	“Her fingernails
were red.” And more red stuff representing danger  		
Crooks				
Slim	Slim represents the idealised American cowboy, something Steinbeck is presenting as a dying thing. He is a master craftsman in his job. American dream-worked his own way to top of heirachy.	‘He smoothed out his crushed hat’-cowboyness
“He smoothed out his crushed hat”-mobility allowed him to get to the top of the heirachy(American dream)- rare thing nowadays.- only character with this quality.	Steinbeck is saying capitalism- looking for the cheapest labour and most profit- is killing the breed of master craftsmen. This is catalysed by the ease to get cheap labour due to the dustbowl immigrants.	

